# HR-Analytics-Using-KNIME-and-Tableau
Customer Churn Prediction Using KNIME and Tableau

In Human Resource Management, attrition is a significant concern. It creates a anxiety and can even have a negative impact on cognitive organisational performance since it results in loss of useful information and expertise. Attrition has other adverse implications, such as increased expenditures. Hall (2019) outlines some of the expenses associated with attrition in an online article, admitting that there are direct costs, such as the cost of training. Hall also considers indirect costs, such as when superior employees are burdened with extra responsibilities from the loss. Employees may "wonder if they should likewise jump ship," according to Hall, because of indirect costs like this one. As a result, one employee's departure may have an impact on others, resulting in a downward spiral of attrition.
Resulting in negative consequences of attrition, it is critical for businesses with high levels of employee attrition to understand why this is the case. If the problem isn't remedied, a company will be severely harmed "both financially and emotionally" (Nelson, 2021). Human Resource Analytics is a valuable and modern approach to accomplish the main goal. This entails working together on study design, algorithms, and statistical techniques in order to "analyse employee data and translate outcomes into emotive reports" (Levenson, 2011, p.34). Predictive Analytics is a form of HR analytics. The building of models to explain developments and behaviours is included at this level, with the overarching goal of "recommending actions based on data" (Simbeck, 2019, p.1). This level of course is undoubtedly beneficial in predicting the reasons for employee attrition.
We will create an analytics solution for the Human resources department to assist in predicting which employees are most likely to quit. A KNIME workflow pulls employee data from HR (age, gender, and education, as well as salary, salary increments, business travel frequency, and so forth) and calculates the likelihood of each employee leaving the organisation.
The historic dataset has been recorded at a specified window during the entire workflow, based on the organization's operational approach. Outliers, erroneous values, or representational structure are then removed from the dataset using KNIME. Employee attrition datasets are typically unbalanced for the attrition category, necessitating reconciliation.
To update attrition probability, the workflow is then deployed on a KNIME Server and can be conducted on demand or using the scheduling option. The HR department uses the model output to create a dataset that can be used to analyse the profiles of employees who are likely to quit, such as how they are distributed amongst departments, years spent at the firm, years since last promotion, last wage increase, and so on. The results are exported directly to a Tableau dashboard using KNIME Analytics Platform's native Tableau integration. This gives business users rapid and easy access to informative and valuable visuals.
Business users can make parametric adjustments to evaluate their influence on the attrition mechanism using the KNIME. Users in the business world can also practice scenarios. For example, whether an employee's likelihood of staying grows when their income rises. This gives business users more control and encourages a data-driven decision-making culture.
